---
layout: post
image: Almost_Wireless_Wall.jpg
title: "My setup - Update 1"
description: I recently moved to a one-display setup. This is how I improved it to be healthier.
---

{% include heading.html level=3 text="What's changed" %}

{% include image.html file="Almost_Wireless_Wall.jpg" alt="A closed laptop next to a monitor. Laptop is connected via USB-C to the monitor. A few plants, a wireless mouse and wireless keyboard are in front of it." caption="This is how it looks now." %}

After using my new setup for around 2 weeks, I noticed that starring at a laptop from above won't be healthy long term. But I struggled to decide what I should do.

First, I placed down my *not so old* monitor. I then attached a small USB-C hub with and HDMI, Ethernet and multiple USB ports to the bottom of the monitor. I connected the monitor and hub. I also attached the USB receiver for my wireless mouse. My keyboard is Bluetooth-only, but I had a pretty simple solution in mind.

I wrote a small script responsible for turning Bluetooth on and off. It detects if the USB Hub is connected. If so, Bluetooth stays on, otherwise, Bluetooths is powerd down.

{% highlight shell %}
#!/bin/bash

if [[ -z $(lsusb | grep "Genesys Logic, Inc. Hub") ]]
then
    bluetoothctl power off
else
    echo "Not disabling Bluetooth, USB Hub connected -> at home."
fi
{% endhighlight %}

{% include heading.html level=3 text="Conclusion" %}

I'm really happy with how this turned out. I have pretty much kept the simplicity, but improved my comfort and health.

Compare it with [the previous setup]({% link _posts/2023-09-26-just-a-laptop.md %}).
